So let's work on the things we outlined in the last lecture,
maybe starting with the activity indicator. For that we can use this UI state we already used in the http
section where we dispatch start and stop loading,
so I will use them here in my auth action creator too
and for that I of course need to import them. I'll
import them from the index file here in the same folder and I want to import
UI start
and UI stop loading, so these action creators. With that here in auth sign up,
I will use them, before fetching
I will dispatch UI start loading and execute that method and I will execute stop loading here
in case we get an error,
whoops, not like this, dispatch UI stop loading, like this and I will also dispatch that
if we got a response because we're done, no matter what the response was.
Now we can use the activity indicator we already used before on the auth screen,
so there I want to import activity indicator from react native and then I want to render the activity
indicator instead of the submit button
if we are well waiting for our request to go through. Now we have this submit button here at the bottom,
here it is,
button with background, now I only want to render this if we are not waiting for our request to finish.
So I'll add a new variable here at the top of the render function, I'll name it submit button and here I will
enter this button with background code we used before,
however I will override this submit button if we are currently waiting for our request to finish.
So for that we need to find out if we're waiting to use this in this if request,
if we scroll to the bottom that means that we also need to connect this auth screen to our state in redux,
we already use map dispatch to props,
now I'll add map state to props to get access to the information whether we are loading or not.
In here I return my javascript mapping object and I will set up an isLoading prop I can use in this component
here and bind it to state
UI isLoading, therefore I'll refer to my UI reducer and the isLoading prop in the UI slice of
our state.
So with that in place, we can use isLoading, first of all I have to pass map state to props to the connect
function though
and now if we scroll up to the render function, we can use this in this if check, we can check if this props
isLoading is true,
if it is, then the submit button should actually be the activity indicator like that and now we can just
render the submit button at the bottom of our form, here
I will render submit button. If we save that file and we reload the app,
we should still see the submit button and I can enter something here and now you have to watch closely
because firebase is pretty fast
but for a fraction of a second, you could see the activity indicator and firebase is just too fast
but obviously a good thing to have it in case it's slower or you're using some other backend.
So we get this added, still we always forward the user to the main tabs even though we got an error
here at the bottom right
and of course we're not really handling the case that we got an error because as I mentioned the catch block
is not fired,
so therefore what I want to do is the next step and we'll do it right now is I want to check if parsed
response actually holds an error.
So to find out whether that's the case or not, I'll simply see if parsed response error exists,
if we have a look at our response, here
we get this error property and this will only be there if we got this error object,
so if this doesn't exist it means we don't have an error.
So I'll see if parsed response error is true
and if it is, then I want to throw basically the same alert message.
Now you could add or implement a more elaborate approach because you actually get the error code here,
email exists and you can check against the firebase docs to find out what sample errors are and then
map or show an appropriate error message,
I'll use this generic one,
the important part is however that this also should determine how we proceed.
We may still log this but you can of course also remove this,
we definitely also still want to stop loading, I'll actually do this first in all circumstances
but only if we got no error, only then I want to forward the user to my tabs. So I'll add an else block here
and remove the console log statement
and now I want to load my tabs
if we did create a user successfully.
Now remember how we forwarded the user to the tabs, we can have a look at the auth screen and there to
our login handler,
we actually just call start main tabs which we import from our tabs screen here, from start main
tabs in main tabs folder,
I will remove that from the auth screen and I will remove that logic down there in the login handler
so that we don't call start main tabs, we just should try to login
and instead what I'll do is in my auth action handler, there I want to call start main tabs.
So I will import start main tabs from
and now we just need to go up and then into the screens folder, into the main tabs folder and then import
start main tabs.
And now we can just execute that method
if we did create a user successfully, start main tabs like this.
Now we can save everything and reload this application
and now if we try this again, you'll see we actually get this error and we're not forwarded
and that's exactly what I want.
Now what we also should do as a next step is make sure that we actually do have two different approaches
for signing up because right now we're actually using the login screen and logging in which we are
not really supporting right now,
we can only create users as of now.
So let's add this functionality next.